
TREASURE ISLAND DIZZY
Walkthrough by Lanzz.
(This walkthrough below is only for the Spectrum, Amstrad and Commodore 64 versions of this game.)
 
A Protected Species #1
Walk left a few steps and pick up the left most plant (a Protected Species #1) there to uncover Coin #1. 
Drop this plant as it has no other uses.

An Empty Solid Chest
Go left to the next screen and pick up the Empty Solid Chest. Drop this chest by the cliff.

A Protected Species #2
Go up, left and pick up Coin #2 there. Head left 1 more screen and pick up the right most plant (a Protected Species #2) there to uncover Coin #3. 
Walk left a little steps and pick up Coin #4 in the middle of the bridge. 
Once you're done, Drop this plant.

A Tube of Toothpaste
Go left 1 screen and you will find the Tube of Toothpaste. 
Ignore this item as It's a red herring.

A Misty Glass Window
Go left again 1 screen and pick up the right window (a Misty Glass Window) of the hut there to uncover Coin #5. 
Drop this window here.

A Clump of Mushrooms
Go left 1 screen (through lower path) and pick up a Clump of Mushrooms to uncover Coin #6. 
Drop the mushrooms here because it has no use.

A Wooden Safety Rail #1
Go left 1 screens (through lower path) and pick up Coin #7. Head right 2 screens and left 2 screens (through upper path). 
Stand on the right edge of upper platform and jump off to the right to arrive on the platform at the previous screen.
Stand near the left most tree and jump off to the right. In the next screen, pick up Coin #8 and go left 1 screen. 
Pick up Coin #9 there and return right, down and then left to the previous screen. 
Here, pick up a second rail from the right (a Wooden Safety Rail #1) to uncover Coin #10. Drop this rail here.

A Bit of Tree Trunk #1
Don't walk through the lower path because of the cage trap that can kill you there. 
Head left 1 screen (through upper path) and pick up a Bit of Tree Trunk #1 (second tree from the left) to uncover Coin #11. Drop this trunk here.

A Rubber Snorkel
Go left 1 screen and jump to the higher platform there. Jump forward to reach Coin #12 (don't walk because of another cage trap). 
Go up 1 screen (by jumping to the right), right 1 screen, left 1 screen (through upper path), up 1 screen, right 1 screen and kick the stone there. 
Jump to the left 1 screen and pick up the Rubber Snorkel.

A Protected Species #3
Stand on the left most edge of this platform where you found the Snorkel and jump off to the left. You'll fall on top of the mine entrance. 
Pick up Protected Species #3 there to uncover Coin #13. Drop this plant here.

A Bit of Tree Trunk #2
From here, go right 3 screens (through upper path). Stay at the second tree from the left and jump left to the next screen. 
Go left 1 screen and pick up a Bit of Tree Trunk #2 (from the smallest tree) to uncover Coin #14. Drop this trunk here.

A Sharp Glass Sword
Go left 1 screen and pick up Coin #15. Return right 1 screen (jump to the higher platform), and then right 1 more screen. 
In this screen, stay near the left most tree, and jump up to the next screen (don't walk to the right because of the cage trap there). 
In the next screen, go right once and pick up a Sharp Glass Sword.

A Small Video Camera
Go left and then down. Walk right a few steps and jump to avoid the trap that located between the two trees from the right. 
Go right and then up to arrive at the same screen where you found the Sword. 
Pick up the Small Video Camera.

An Imitation Skull #1
From here, jump to the right and you'll fall at the screen with the first house you see in this game (the house where you found Coin #5). Go right 4 screens, down 1 screens and right 1 more screen to arrive at the start location.
Drop the Sword and Camera here but don't drop the Snorkel (make sure to put Snorkel in the final slot of your inventory). 
In this screen; walk right a few steps and pick up Coin #16. Go right 1 screen, down 1 screen, right 2 screen and pick up the skull (an Imitation Skull #1) there to uncover Coin #17.

A Salt Water Spade
Go back left once and pick up Coin #18. From here; jump to the right most platform near the crab and go right to the next screen. 
Pick up the Salt Water Spade and make you way back to the start location.
At the start location, drop the skull because it has no use. 
Put the Spade in the first slot of your inventory and Snorkel in the third slot (It's important because you'll die if you drop the Snorkel underwater).
Go right 1 screen, down 1 screen, right 3 screens, and use the Spade on the little blue bubble (next to the cave entrance) there to create bubbles that float upward.

A Big Red Heavy Rock
Return to the start location and pick up the Sword and Camera that you left there. 
Go back right 1 screen, down 1 screen and right 3 screens. 
Ride the bubble that floats upwards and go right to the next screen. Pick up Coin #19, go up 1 screen and then right 1 screen. 
Stand next to the grave and use the Sword to create a hole underneath it. 
Ignore the hole for now. 
Just go right 1 screen, pick up Coin #20 and then go right 1 more screen. Pick up a Big Red Heavy Rock near the totem pole to uncover Coin #21.

A Dehydrated Boat
Head right 1 screen and Pick up Coin #22. Give the Camera to the Storekeeper (at the same screen) and he will give you a Dehydrated Boat as a reward. 
Go right 2 screens and drop the boat near the water there.

A Protected Species #4
Go left 1 screen and pick up a Protected Species #4 there to uncover Coin #23. Drop this plant here.

An Empty Old Bucket
Go left 1 more screen and pick up an Empty Old Bucket on the platform above the Shopkeeper. 
Give it to the Shopkeeper for extra scores.

An Old Holy Bible
Go left 1 screen and pick up an Old Holy Bible there.

The Woodcutters Axe
Go left 2 more screens and pick up the Woodcutters Axe. 
Now, return to the start location (don't drop your Snorkel yet, because we need it later).
From the start location; go left 1 screen, up 1 screen and left 2 more screens (make sure that you have the Axe in the first slot, Bible in the second slot, and the Snorkel in the third slot). 
Use the Axe on the middle of the bridge to cut it and you will fall down to the next screen.

The Cursed Treasure
Go left 1 screen and pick up Coin #24. From here; go up 1 screen and right 1 screen to return at the bridge. 
Put the Bible in the second slot and the Snorkel in the third slot. Once you're done; go down 1 screen, right 1 screen and pick up Coin #25. 
Pick up the Cursed Treasure at the same screen (the Holy Bible is needed to scare away the spirit of a dead pirate that guards the treasure).

An Outboard Motor
Make your way back to the Storekeeper and give the Treasure to him. He will give you an Outboard Motor as a reward. 
Drop the Bible here, go right 2 screens and use the Motor on the boat there.

A Large Golden Key
Pick up a Large Golden Key and go left 5 screen to arrive at the screen with the grave (make sure you have the Snorkel with you).

Sticks of Dynamite
Go down, left and pick up the Sticks of Dynamite there.

An Imitation Skull #2
Go right 2 screens and pick up the Imitation Skull #2 to uncover Coin #26. Drop this skull here.

A Microwave Oven
Go right 1 screen and pick up Coin #27. Use the key on the barrel on the floor and you'll fall down to Black Beard's secret kitchen. 
Pick up a Microwave Oven and Coin #28 there.

A Gallon of Petrol
Go up 1 screen, left 4 screens, right 1 screen, up 1 screen and right 4 more screens to return to the Storekeeper. 
Give the Oven to him and he will give you a Gallon of Petrol as a reward. 
Go right 2 screens and use the Petrol on the boat there.

A Wooden Safety Rail #2
Make your way back to the start location. 
From here; go left 1 screen, up 1 screen, left 6 screens, up 1 screen, left 1 screen, right 1 screen (through upper path), up 1 screen and left 1 screen. 
Pick up a right most rail (Wooden Safety Rail #2) to uncover Coin #29.

Infra Red Detonator
Go right (through upper path) and pick up the Infra Red Detonator there. 
Go left, right, down, left, right, down and left 4 more screens. 
Drop Dynamite near the large rock, go behind another rock and use the detonator to blow up the large rock blocking your way.

A Bag of Gold Coins
Pick up the Bag of Gold Coins and go right 2 screens. 
Jump into higher platform there and go right again.

Sinclair Abuser Magazine
Go right once more (through the lower path) and pick up Sinclair Abuser Magazine (a reference to the then bitter rivalry between Spectrum and Commodore owners). 
Make your way back to the start location and drop the Magazine underwater for extra scores.

An Ignition Key
Make your way back to the Storekeeper. Give a Bag of Gold Coins to him and he will give you the Ignition Key as a reward. 
Go right 2 screens and use the Key on the boat there.

Go right 1 screen and pick up Coin #30. 
Pay the Taxman 30 gold coins to complete the game (you cannot leave without finding all 30 coins).

Well done!
 